HARI SREENIVASAN: And to our
"NewsHour" Shares, something
that caught our eye that may be
of interest to you, too.
This year marks the 60th
anniversary of the debut
of a musical oddity,
the Great Stalacpipe
Organ of Virginia's
Luray Caverns.
"NewsHour" recently got a
behind-the-scenes look at the
one-of-a-kind instrument from
those who know it best.
Cavern historian John
Shaffer starts us off.
JOHN SHAFFER, Luray
Caverns Corporation: Luray
caverns is home to the
largest musical instrument
in the world, the
Great Stalacpipe Organ.
And it plays the stalactites.
The organ was created
by Leland W. Sprinkle.
Mr. Sprinkle toured the caverns
in 1954 with his young son,
and, at that time, the guides
would tap stalactites to
show that the different sizes
give off different tones.
LARRY MOYER, Operations Manager:
What he did was take rubber
mallets and a concept of an
organ and put it all
together Into an instrument.
I'm Larry Moyer.
I am operations manager for
the Great Stalacpipe Organ.
You're actually standing
inside the organ as it plays,
because the stalactites cover
over three-and-a-half
acres around us.
Basically, we call it
like a player-type piano.
So, the sheet of plastic is
your song, and as the drum
rotates, the metal brushes fall
into contact through
holes in the plastic
and sends the notes out.
And, on occasion, we will
have an organist present.
OTTO PEBWORTH, Organist: A pipe
organ produces its sounds by
forcing air through columns.
What we are doing here is,
we are actually playing a
37-note percussion instrument.
My name is Otto Pebworth.
I play the organ here at Luray
Caverns, and I have been playing
pipe organs now for close
to 30 years.
It's very settling,
very soothing.
I just have a chance just
to stop and let everything
go quiet and make music.
And that's what makes
it the nicest thing.
A room like this lends itself
more towards the more peaceful
things like "Moonlight Sonata"
or some of the Bach preludes.
The Stalacpipe Organ is a
totally unique instrument
unto itself, and,
because of that, you can
just hear something that
is just totally natural
and totally special.
Can't be duplicated.